Runtime Upgrades & Storage Migrations (#750)
substrate-developer-hub/substrate-developer-hub.github.io: docs/knowledgebase/runtime/upgrades.md

that changes the data type used to represent user balances from an _unsigned_ integer to a _signed_
integer - in this case, the storage migration would read the existing value as an unsigned integer
and write back an updated value that has been converted to a signed integer. Failure to perform a
storage migration when needed will result in the runtime execution engine misinterpreting the
storage values that represent the runtime state and lead to undefined behavior. Substrate runtime
storage migrations fall into a category of storage management broadly referred to as
"[data migrations](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_migration)".

### Storage Migrations with FRAME

FRAME storage migrations are implemented by way of
[the `OnRuntimeUpgrade` trait](https://substrate.dev/rustdocs/v2.0.0/frame_support/traits/trait.OnRuntimeUpgrade.html),
which specifies a single function, `on_runtime_upgrade`. This function provides a hook that allows
runtime developers to specify logic that will run immediately _after_ a runtime upgrade but _before_
any [extrinsics or even the `on_initialize` function](execution#executing-a-block) have executed.

### Preparing for a Migration

> Preparing for a storage migrations means understanding the changes that are defined by a runtime

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Preparing for a storage migration means understanding the changes that are defined by a runtime
```

- Include logging in migrations to assist in debugging.
- Remember that migrations are executed within the context of the _upgraded_ runtime, which means
  that migration code may need to include deprecated types, as in
  [this example](https://github.com/hicommonwealth/substrate/blob/5f3933f5735a75d2d438341ec6842f269b886aaa/frame/indices/src/migration.rs#L5-L22).
- Use storage versions to make migrations safer by making them more declarative, as in
  [this example](https://github.com/paritytech/substrate/blob/c79b522a11bbc7b3cf2f4a9c0a6627797993cb79/frame/elections-phragmen/src/lib.rs#L119-L157).

### Ordering Migrations

By default, FRAME will order the execution of `on_runtime_upgrade` functions according to the order
in which the pallets appear in the `construct_runtime!` macro - in particular, they will run in
_reverse_ (top-to-bottom) order. FRAME exposes a capability to inject storage migrations in a custom
order, if needed (see an
[example here](https://github.com/hicommonwealth/edgeware-node/blob/7b66f4f0a9ec184fdebcccd41533acc728ebe9dc/node/runtime/src/lib.rs#L845-L866)).

FRAME storage migrations will run in this order:

> 1. `frame_system::on_runtime_upgrade`
> 1. Custom `on_runtime_upgrade`, as described above
> 1. Any pallet's `on_runtime_upgrade` function, in the order described above

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `frame_system::on_runtime_upgrade`
2. Custom `on_runtime_upgrade`, as described above
3. All `on_runtime_upgrade` functions defined in the pallets included in the runtime, in the order described above
```
